source_url: https://www.hipaajournal.com/change-healthcare-responding-to-cyberattack
title: Nebraska AG’s Lawsuit Against Change Healthcare Survives Motion to Dismiss
retrieved_via: tavily query='Change Healthcare February 2024 ransomware attack root cause initial access Citrix portal'
retrieved_at: 2026-09-27T00:20:13+00:00
---
The ransomware attack was detected on February 21, 2024, and on March 7, 2024, Change Healthcare confirmed exfiltration of data from its systems. The forensic investigation confirmed that a threat actor had access to its systems from February 17, 2024, to February 20, 2024. Access was gained through a vulnerable Citrix remote access service, which lacked multi-factor authentication. [...] Witty also confirmed that the threat actor gained initial access to the Change Healthcare network using compromised credentials to remotely access a Change Healthcare Citrix portal used for remote access to desktops. The Citrix portal did not have multifactor authentication enabled.He explained that it was initially unclear how access had been gained, so the decision was taken to sever connectivity with Change Healthcare’s data centers. While that move was hugely disruptive, he said it was the right thing to do to contain the attack and limit the harm caused. He also confirmed that it was his decision to pay the ransom. The decision was “guided by the overriding priority to do everything possible to protect people’s personal health information,” and it was one of the hardest decisions he [...] In a February 29, 2024 update, Change Healthcare confirmed that this was an ALPHV/Blackcat ransomware attack. “Change Healthcare can confirm we are experiencing a cybersecurity issue perpetrated by a cybercrime threat actor who has represented itself to us as ALPHV/Blackcat. Our experts are working to address the matter and we are working closely with law enforcement and leading third-party consultants, Mandiant and Palo Alto Network, on this attack against Change Healthcare’s systems. We are actively working to understand the impact to members, patients and customers.”