source_url: https://www.nixonpeabody.com/insights/alerts/2025/11/12/change-healthcare-cybersecurity-breach-impact-on-healthcare-providers
title: Change Healthcare cyber breach | Nixon Peabody LLP
retrieved_via: tavily query='Change Healthcare February 2024 ransomware attack root cause initial access Citrix portal'
retrieved_at: 2026-09-27T00:35:33+00:00
---
On February 21, 2024, Change detected a ransomware attack affecting systems that support electronic data interchange among thousands of providers, payors, and pharmacies across the country. In May 2024, UnitedHealth Group CEO Andrew Witty testified before the Senate that hackers gained access to Change’s system on February 12, 2024, using compromised credentials on a Citrix remote access portal that lacked multi-factor authentication. The nine-day delay between the initial hack and Change’s detection exposed critical deficiencies in data security and timely threat detection, which Witty acknowledged was caused in part by its failure to update internal security procedures after the acquisition of Change in October 2022. Change confirmed on March 7, 2024, that data had been exfiltrated from [...] In February 2024, Change Healthcare (Change)—one of the largest healthcare administrative and payment clearinghouses in the United States, which was acquired by the UnitedHealth Group in 2022—was targeted by a cyberattack. Change’s cybersecurity failures and the resulting cyber incident triggered a crisis with far-reaching consequences that continue to affect healthcare providers across the country. As the operator of critical infrastructure for claims submission, eligibility verification, payment processing, and pharmacy benefit transactions, Change is at the center of the data and financial underpinning of daily operations for the US health system. The scope and duration of the outages, and Change’s delayed recovery of its systems, disrupted provider revenue cycles nationwide, exposed [...] on March 7, 2024, that data had been exfiltrated from its systems—including health information, Social Security numbers, driver’s license and passport numbers, and financial/payment card information—and Change subsequently paid (through Optum, another UnitedHealth Group subsidiary) a $22 million ransom to ensure deletion of the stolen data. Change’s systems were offline beginning February 21, 2024, and did not resume functionalities for many months thereafter.